back to the trick palace is a journey
back in time to and to the electric
Palace which is the name layers to give
cinemas in the early days and it takes
we've taken five films have been chosen
each one because their pioneering in the
world of cinema they each were the first
film to introduce a certain technique or
a certain type of movie and it's a
journey back in time and also kind of a
journey into the future because five
composers young composers have written
new soundtracks to these which are going
to be performed live and they kind of
made these old films suddenly feel very
contemporary relevant again and you
realize how groundbreaking they were and
with it with a new contemporary
soundtrack they suddenly feel really
alive again oh yeah I was surprised when
opera North approach approached me and
said would you be interested in this
film project because I thought where's
the where's the singing where's the
opera and they've got this department
Opera North projects which is about
using the facilities that opera North
have to kind of outreach go out further
and try things that aren't directly
opera but that could perhaps bring ideas
and performers and composers into the
Opera North sort of see in world that
might then lead to other projects and
it's and it's a way of them kind of
getting getting out beyond the kind of
world just opera and kind of spreading
their tentacles into other areas
obviously Phil does i think does have a
direct connection with opera because
before film existed opera was kind of
the predecessor because of
marriage of music and drama and
narrative I'm personally frequently
frustrated that you've got a lot of
young people composing and performing
classical music and yet a lot of the
time they're not playing to their peer
groups and so I've tried to find ways to
make classical music that I rights and
Fred's Minds write and perform fit into
people into young people's lifestyle and
one of the main ways I've done that is
to do a classical club night once a
month and so therefore you present
massive lightning presenter back a rock
band alongside the club I've set up a
record label nur which is like an
alternative classical label called
non-classical which is also the name of
the night and the idea of that is kind
of pushing the boundaries of what is
classical music will release a
contemporary classical piece say a
string quartet that I'm I've written or
a string piece some friends of mine
written and then we'll get other
producers from other musical backgrounds
to do remixes on me the five films are
quite contrasting and so the challenge
was was to find five composers who would
suit each film and also personally I
wanted to show a kind of have a
contrasting program musically so that
you'd have maybe quite a more
traditional contemporary classical
composer maybe someone who had a
slightly more popular style someone who
is more from the electronica backgrounds
myself who is influenced by some kind of
an urban and dance music as well as
classical music and it's worked really
well each film has got a very strong
identity and that's partly because of
the composer chosen cinemas so
sophisticated now
you know if you think about new Galactus
of 1913 or 1907 and then we're really
just learning working on how to do it
and even the editing of style often
feels a little bit hand up a little bit
exaggerated so for example the film I
did the musketeers of pigalle when I
first watched out for what god this film
just all feels a little bit hand up in a
bit bit of a caricature a little bit too
melodramatic how am I going to is only
going to take this seriously and then as
soon as I put some heavier darker cord
spin music behind it that just
disappeared and suddenly gave it a kind
of sinister weight and the music can
completely transform your perception of
it and it changes your perception of the
time of the film everything you know
it's incredible what it does and and the
thing I found amazing is that these
films are some were 100 years old put
some contemporary modern music by young
composer on them and that you forget
they've like a white they said they feel
like they could have been made quite
recently
you